Added Active-Object pattern. (#1660)
iluwatar/java-design-patterns: active-object/README.md

---
layout: pattern
title: Active Object
folder: active-object
permalink: /patterns/active-object/
categories: Concurrency
tags:
 - Performance
---

## Intent
The active object design pattern decouples method execution from method invocation for objects that each reside in their thread of control. The goal is to introduce concurrency, by using asynchronous method invocation and a scheduler for handling requests.

## Explanation

The class that implements the active object pattern will contain a self-synchronization mechanism without using 'synchronized' methods.

Real-world example

>The Orcs are known for their wildness and untameable soul. It seems like they have their own thread of control based on previous behavior.

To implement a creature that has its own thread of control mechanism and expose its API only and not the execution itself, we can use the Active Object pattern.

**Programmatic Example**

```java
public abstract class ActiveCreature{

>   private final Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(ActiveCreature.class.getName());

Reviewer: Update the logger here to static as well.

---
layout: pattern
title: Active Object
folder: active-object
permalink: /patterns/active-object/
categories: Concurrency
tags:
 - Performance
---

## Intent
The active object design pattern decouples method execution from method invocation for objects that each reside in their own thread of control.The goal is to introduce concurrency, by using asynchronous method invocation and a scheduler for handling requests.(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_object)

## Explanation

The class that implements the active object pattern will contain a self-synchronization mechanism without using 'synchronized' methods.

Real world example

> >The Orcs are known for their wildeness and untamelable soul. It seems like they have their own thread of control based on prevous behaviour.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The Orcs are known for their wildness and untameable soul. It seems like they have their own thread of control based on previous behavior.
```

> On order to implement a creature which has its own thread of control mechanism and expose its API only and not the execution itself,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To implement a creature that has its own thread of control mechanism and expose its API only and not the execution itself, we can use the Active Object pattern.
```

we can use the Active Object pattern.

**Programmatic Example**

```java
public abstract class ActiveCreature{
  private final Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger(ActiveCreature.class.getName());

  private BlockingQueue<Runnable> requests;
  
  private String name;
  
  private Thread thread;

  public ActiveCreature(String name) {
    this.name = name;
    this.requests = new LinkedBlockingQueue<Runnable>();
    thread = new Thread(new Runnable() {
        @Override
        public void run() {
          while (true) {
            try {
              requests.take().run();
            } catch (InterruptedException e) { 
              logger.error(e.getMessage());
            }
          }
        }
      }
    );
    thread.start();
  }
  
  public void eat() throws InterruptedException {
    requests.put(new Runnable() {
        @Override
        public void run() { 
          logger.info("{} is eating!",name());
          logger.info("{} has finished eating!",name());
        }
      }
    );
  }

  public void roam() throws InterruptedException {
    requests.put(new Runnable() {
        @Override
        public void run() { 

>           logger.info("{} has started to roam and the wastelands.",name());

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          logger.info("{} has started to roam in the wastelands.",name());
```

        }
      }
    );
  }
  
  public String name() {
    return this.name;
  }
}

```

We can see that any class that will extend the ActiveCreature class will have its own thread of control to execute and invocate methods.

For example, the Orc class:
```java
public class Orc extends ActiveCreature {

  public Orc(String name) {
    super(name);
  }

}
```

> Now, we can create multiple creatures such as Orcs, tell them to eat and roam and they will execure it on their own thread of control:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, we can create multiple creatures such as Orcs, tell them to eat and roam and they will execute it on their own thread of control:
```

---
layout: pattern
title: Active Object
folder: active-object
permalink: /patterns/active-object/
categories: Concurrency
tags:

>  - Gang of Four

Reviewer 2: Active Object is not part of GoF patterns. I would suggest `Performance` tag
https://github.com/iluwatar/java-design-patterns/wiki/07.-Categories-and-Tags

Reviewer 2: The tag hasn't been updated yet

---

## Intent
The active object design pattern decouples method execution from method invocation for objects that each reside in their own thread of control.The goal is to introduce concurrency, by using asynchronous method invocation and a scheduler for handling requests.(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_object)

## Explanation

The class that implements the active object pattern will contain a self-synchronization mechanism without using 'synchronized' methods.

The class provides an interface ob method execution, but the logic and runtime will be implemented in a seperated thread. This thread, will be inserted
into the scheduler to handle the request properly.

> In the following example, the scheduler is implemented by a BlockingQueue.

Reviewer 2: It would be nice if the explanation would be in the same format as the other patterns and contain a programmatic example. It's not a showstopper, however.

Reviewer 2: Didn't get your comment here?
